Add the policies service (#412)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment/services/s-list/policies.adoc

For configuration examples, the example policies provided from the xref:example-policies[Example Policies] are used. 

== Modules

=== GRPC API

The GRPC api can be used from any other internal service. It can also be used for example by third parties to find out if an action is allowed or not. This layer is already used by the proxy middleware. There is no configuration necessary, because the query setting (complete rule variable) must be part of the request.

=== Proxy Middleware

The xref:{s-path}/proxy.adoc[proxy service] already includes a middleware which uses the internal xref:grpc-service[GRPC api] to evaluate the policies. Since the Proxy is in heavy use and every HTTP request is processed here, only simple and quick decisions should be evaluated. More complex queries such as file content evaluation are _strongly_ discouraged.

=== Event Service (Postprocessing)

This layer is event-based and part of the xref:{s-path}/postprocessing.adoc[postprocessing service]. Since processing at this point is asynchronous, the operations can also take longer and be more expensive, like evaluating the contents of a file.

== Defining Policies to Evaluate

> Each module can have as many policy files it takes for evaluation. Files can also include other files if necessary. To use policies, they have to be saved to a location that is accessible to the policies service. As a good starting point, take the xref:deployment/general/general-info.adoc#configuration-directory[config directory] and use a subdirectory collecting all the `.rego` files, though any other directory can be defined. The config directory is already accessible by all services and usually is included in a xref:maintenance/b-r/backup.adoc[backup] plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each module can have as many policy files as needed for evaluation. Files can also include other files if necessary. To use policies, they have to be saved to a location that is accessible to the policies service. As a good starting point, take the xref:deployment/general/general-info.adoc#configuration-directory[config directory] and use a subdirectory collecting all the `.rego` files, though any other directory can be defined. The config directory is already accessible by all services and usually is included in a xref:maintenance/b-r/backup.adoc[backup] plan.
```

* The `complete-rule-variable-name` is the variable providing the result of the evaluation.
* Exact one of the defined files, which is responsible for returning the evaluation result, must contain the combination of `<package-name>` and `<complete-rule-variable-name>`.

=== Proxy

Note that this setting has to be part of the proxy configuration.

[source,yaml]
----
proxy:
  policies_middleware:
    query: data.proxy.granted
----

The same can be achieved by setting the following evironment variable:

[source,yaml]
----
PROXY_POLICIES_QUERY=data.proxy.granted
----

=== Postprocessing

[source,yaml]
----
policies:
  postprocessing:
    query: data.postprocessing.granted
----

The same can be achieved by setting the following evironment variable:

[source,yaml]
----
POLICIES_POSTPROCESSING_QUERY=data.postprocessing.granted
----

As soon as that query is configured, the postprocessing service must be informed to use the policies step by setting the environment variable: 

[source,yaml]
----
POSTPROCESSING_STEPS=policies
----

> Note that additional steps can be configured and their appearance defines the order of processing. For details see the xref:{s-path}.adoc[postprocessing service] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that additional steps can be configured and their position in the list defines the order of processing. For details see the xref:{s-path}.adoc[postprocessing service] documentation.
```

== Example Policies

> The policies service contains a set of pre-configured example policies. See the deployment examples directory for details. The contained policies disallow ocis to create certain filetypes, both via the proxy middleware and the events service via postprocessing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policies service contains a set of preconfigured example policies. See the deployment examples directory for details. The contained policies disallow Infinite Scale to create certain file types, both via the proxy middleware and the events service via postprocessing.
```
